.. index:: compute temp/partial

compute temp/partial command
============================

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   compute ID group-ID temp/partial xflag yflag zflag

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`compute <compute>` command
* temp/partial = style name of this compute command
* xflag,yflag,zflag = 0/1 for whether to exclude/include this dimension

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   compute newT flow temp/partial 1 1 0

Description
"""""""""""

Define a computation that calculates the temperature of a group of
atoms, after excluding one or more velocity components.  A compute of
this style can be used by any command that computes a temperature,
e.g. :doc:`thermo_modify <thermo_modify>`, :doc:`fix temp/rescale <fix_temp_rescale>`, :doc:`fix npt <fix_nh>`, etc.

The temperature is calculated by the formula KE = dim/2 N k T, where
KE = total kinetic energy of the group of atoms (sum of 1/2 m v\^2),
dim = dimensionality of the simulation, N = number of atoms in the
group, k = Boltzmann constant, and T = temperature.  The calculation
of KE excludes the x, y, or z dimensions if xflag, yflag, or zflag =
0.  The dim parameter is adjusted to give the correct number of
degrees of freedom.

A kinetic energy tensor, stored as a 6-element vector, is also
calculated by this compute for use in the calculation of a pressure
tensor.  The formula for the components of the tensor is the same as
the above formula, except that v\^2 is replaced by vx\*vy for the xy
component, etc.  The 6 components of the vector are ordered xx, yy,
zz, xy, xz, yz.

The number of atoms contributing to the temperature is assumed to be
constant for the duration of the run; use the *dynamic* option of the
:doc:`compute_modify <compute_modify>` command if this is not the case.

The removal of velocity components by this fix is essentially
computing the temperature after a "bias" has been removed from the
velocity of the atoms.  If this compute is used with a fix command
that performs thermostatting then this bias will be subtracted from
each atom, thermostatting of the remaining thermal velocity will be
performed, and the bias will be added back in.  Thermostatting fixes
that work in this way include :doc:`fix nvt <fix_nh>`, :doc:`fix temp/rescale <fix_temp_rescale>`, :doc:`fix temp/berendsen <fix_temp_berendsen>`, and :doc:`fix langevin <fix_langevin>`.

This compute subtracts out degrees-of-freedom due to fixes that
constrain molecular motion, such as :doc:`fix shake <fix_shake>` and
:doc:`fix rigid <fix_rigid>`.  This means the temperature of groups of
atoms that include these constraints will be computed correctly.  If
needed, the subtracted degrees-of-freedom can be altered using the
*extra* option of the :doc:`compute_modify <compute_modify>` command.

See the :doc:`Howto thermostat <Howto_thermostat>` page for a
discussion of different ways to compute temperature and perform
thermostatting.

----------

.. include:: accel_styles.rst

----------

Output info
"""""""""""

This compute calculates a global scalar (the temperature) and a global
vector of length 6 (KE tensor), which can be accessed by indices 1-6.
These values can be used by any command that uses global scalar or
vector values from a compute as input.  See the :doc:`Howto output <Howto_output>` page for an overview of LAMMPS output
options.

The scalar value calculated by this compute is "intensive".  The
vector values are "extensive".

The scalar value will be in temperature :doc:`units <units>`.  The
vector values will be in energy :doc:`units <units>`.

Restrictions
""""""""""""
 none

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`compute temp <compute_temp>`, :doc:`compute temp/region <compute_temp_region>`, :doc:`compute pressure <compute_pressure>`

Default
"""""""

none
