.. index:: write_restart

write_restart command
=====================

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   write_restart file keyword value ...

* file = name of file to write restart information to
* zero or more keyword/value pairs may be appended
* keyword = *fileper* or *nfile*

  .. parsed-literal::

       *fileper* arg = Np
         Np = write one file for every this many processors
       *nfile* arg = Nf
         Nf = write this many files, one from each of Nf processors

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   write_restart restart.equil
   write_restart restart.equil.mpiio
   write_restart poly.%.* nfile 10

Description
"""""""""""

Write a binary restart file of the current state of the simulation.

During a long simulation, the :doc:`restart <restart>` command is
typically used to output restart files periodically.  The
write_restart command is useful after a minimization or whenever you
wish to write out a single current restart file.

Similar to :doc:`dump <dump>` files, the restart filename can contain
two wild-card characters.  If a "\*" appears in the filename, it is
replaced with the current timestep value.  If a "%" character appears
in the filename, then one file is written by each processor and the
"%" character is replaced with the processor ID from 0 to P-1.  An
additional file with the "%" replaced by "base" is also written, which
contains global information.  For example, the files written for
filename restart.% would be restart.base, restart.0, restart.1, ...
restart.P-1.  This creates smaller files and can be a fast mode of
output and subsequent input on parallel machines that support parallel
I/O.  The optional *fileper* and *nfile* keywords discussed below can
alter the number of files written.

The restart file can also be written in parallel as one large binary
file via the MPI-IO library, which is part of the MPI standard for
versions 2.0 and above.  Using MPI-IO requires two steps.  First,
build LAMMPS with its MPIIO package installed, e.g.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: CMake build

      .. code-block:: bash

         cmake . -DPKG_MPIIO=on  # enables the MPIIO package in the build folder
         cmake --build .         # recompiles LAMMPS with the package code included

   .. tab:: Traditional make

      .. code-block:: bash

         make yes-mpiio    # installs the MPIIO package
         make mpi          # build LAMMPS for your platform

Second, use a restart filename which contains ".mpiio".  Note that it
does not have to end in ".mpiio", just contain those characters.
Unlike MPI-IO dump files, a particular restart file must be both
written and read using MPI-IO.

Restart files can be read by a :doc:`read_restart <read_restart>`
command to restart a simulation from a particular state.  Because the
file is binary (to enable exact restarts), it may not be readable on
another machine.  In this case, you can use the :doc:`-r command-line switch <Run_options>` to convert a restart file to a data file.

.. note::

   Although the purpose of restart files is to enable restarting a
   simulation from where it left off, not all information about a
   simulation is stored in the file.  For example, the list of fixes that
   were specified during the initial run is not stored, which means the
   new input script must specify any fixes you want to use.  Even when
   restart information is stored in the file, as it is for some fixes,
   commands may need to be re-specified in the new input script, in order
   to re-use that information. Details are usually given in the
   documentation of the respective command. Also, see the
   :doc:`read_restart <read_restart>` command for general information about
   what is stored in a restart file.

----------

The optional *nfile* or *fileper* keywords can be used in conjunction
with the "%" wildcard character in the specified restart file name.
As explained above, the "%" character causes the restart file to be
written in pieces, one piece for each of P processors.  By default P =
the number of processors the simulation is running on.  The *nfile* or
*fileper* keyword can be used to set P to a smaller value, which can
be more efficient when running on a large number of processors.

The *nfile* keyword sets P to the specified Nf value.  For example, if
Nf = 4, and the simulation is running on 100 processors, 4 files will
be written, by processors 0,25,50,75.  Each will collect information
from itself and the next 24 processors and write it to a restart file.

For the *fileper* keyword, the specified value of Np means write one
file for every Np processors.  For example, if Np = 4, every fourth
processor (0,4,8,12,etc) will collect information from itself and the
next 3 processors and write it to a restart file.

----------

Restrictions
""""""""""""

This command requires inter-processor communication to migrate atoms
before the restart file is written.  This means that your system must
be ready to perform a simulation before using this command (force
fields setup, atom masses initialized, etc).

To write and read restart files in parallel with MPI-IO, the MPIIO
package must be installed.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`restart <restart>`, :doc:`read_restart <read_restart>`,
:doc:`write_data <write_data>`

Default
"""""""

none
